# Distributed Systems Architecture (DSA)

In this module, we will be revising what we have learned so far with DSA. DSA is a set of computer science themes and concepts that are highly referenced in interviews. The systems we have covered so far have been strings, arrays, dictionaries (or hash maps), linked lists, trees (including Tries or string k-ary trees), and graphs. It is important to get comfortable with the data structures and then to challenge yourself with harder problems for your skill level and work on learning patterns as they relate to the data structures. 

It is important to remember for interviews that the important part is moving through a problem, communicating with the interviewers and asking questions when you get stuck. Also, be confident and try to answer questions - do not give up when stumped on a question. Also, it is nice to see others recommending to take a moment to gather your thoughts about a question before launching into trying to analyze things because for me, that is a very important step in trying to solve things between getting the problem(and repeating it back to the interviewer) or asking questions and diving in. Another important thing is be respectful and coachable - try to take in the feedback or the re-directions the interviewer may present to you. You can also ask your interviewer for help if you get stuck at any point. Interviews are also about the interviewer learning about your personality and how you approach or break down problems. Finally, make sure to revisit your code in a step through to make sure it is doing what you want it to do, and walk through some of how you would test your edge cases. 

[Reading Notes Home Page](README.md)