# Ethics in Tech

Pick Two Articles. How each of them relates to ethics in technology. Do you agree or disagree with these articles? What stuck out to you specifically from each article?

[BIG DATA IS OUR GENERATION’S CIVIL RIGHTS ISSUE, AND WE DON’T KNOW IT](http://solveforinteresting.com/big-data-is-our-generations-civil-rights-issue-and-we-dont-know-it/) is an article from 2012 that describes some repercussions that come from the way companies can use data to extrapolate about peoples' genders, races, religions or views and other characteristics by comparing their data to others. I started reading the article by thinking about how much it feels like this generation still has the same civil rights issues that have always been plaguing this country between the Buffalo Massacre, the Supreme court looking to roll back women's bodily autonomy (along with the seemingly pursuant restrictions feared to follow for queer communities), and the rise in hate crimes to jewish, asian, trans, native american, and almost every other marginalized population. We are at a time when inflation is rising and contributing to the "K" shaped recovery, and yet companies are making record profits in a continuing pandemic where 1% of the American population has died and the remaining people are struggling to make ends meet. All of this is to say that there are ongoing civil rights issues, and the fact is for the most part this country is barely even endeavoring to touch any of the more easily resolved issues, and with this new frontier of potential exploitation we can all but assume will go unchallenged for a long while. This just seems like a subject that will go into history books unchallenged for the people of the future to marvel at the injustices of the past. Clearly if things were to be ethical, data would not be used to help people or companies discriminate against others but looking around at what is happening in the world, it seems we are a long way away from meaningful regulation.

To then compare and contrast [The Code I'm Still Ashamed Of](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/the-code-im-still-ashamed-of-e4c021dff55e) with the [Microsoft Employees who took a stand](https://web.archive.org/web/20211124172013/https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/19/technology/tech-companies-immigration-border.html) we can see that personal ethics do have an impact on organizations. In the first story, a developer programs exactly to the specifications they are given which helps a company unfairly target medications to a particular demographic while in the second Microsoft employees put pressure on their employer to stop working with ICE, an organization that was separating families at the border between the United States and Mexico. While having developers who are unaware of their impact can help propagate bad practices and predatory behavior, many people working together can perhaps change the public sentiment of large companies. The counter-issue, however, is that nothing is really stopping companies from replacing people with strong ethics by those who have less ethics or need the job more, especially for companies who are less in the public limelight than large companies such as Microsoft. Not that this would be right, but it is not to say that it never happens. It goes to show that ethics (as well as communication and diversity inclusion) should be taught in every level. On the other hand, it is really amazing that we are expecting that everyone will learn and apply critical reasoning and ethics while in 2022 54% of the American population cannot at this time read above a 6th grade reading level.


[Reading Notes Home Page](README.md)